README.md, before:

# Learn to Code

In this repository you will see some learning materials about programming, that probably help you begin your journey.

## Introduction

This repository is sole created with the purpose to help you in begin with programming.
For those who is only about to begin programming may found hard to grasp how to start with and on what topics.
The goal here is to provide small baby steps for learning about software engineering, and collect the most necessary knowledge in one place.

The project not going to achieve the following objectives:
* Teach you specific frameworks
* keep you up to date with the current trends and hypes
* make you a software engineer by only reading this guide

The project goal is to achieve the following objectives:
* introduce you to the basic concepts of software engineering
* help you understand technologies that serve as a basis for most higher level abstraction
* help you shape your thinking to a direction which allows you do begin iterative self training
* introduce you to at least one programming language that can be used as reference for your future studies
* help you get comfortably talk with a rubber duck

Each Section below here will be a reference to a separate file

### Curriculum
* [Habits For Learning](HabitsForLearning.md)
* [Software? Hardware?](SoftwareAndHardware.md)
* [Operation System Fundamentals](OperationSystemFundamentals.md)
  * [GNU/Linux](GNU-Linux.md)

Commit message:

factor out prolog part from Thinking habits section, to the main README

README.md, after:

# Learn to Code

In this repository you will see some learning materials about programming, that probably help you begin your journey.

## Prologue

The only constant in life is change. In order to make change come more efficiently, learning is a powerful utility.
Learning about how the brain works on high level, what habits make the learning process easier and efficient
was a game changer in my life to improve my poor performance.
I will be honest, when I was a child, I had a lot of trouble with study.
My brain made the assumption of having talent in one field, while being bad on others.
The reality was much more easier, and in the meantime invisible because its simplicity.
It was all about the learning with vs without correlating contextual information about a subject.
For topics, where my teachers put effort to teach contextual data about the target subject,
I was able to easily memorize and consume the content, while for those where the teacher didn't put effort into it,
and I as a student also didn't put any effort into gather contextual information, the topic became harder to memorize,
therefore it felt to me much harder as well.

I will not lie to you. My personal opinion is that Software Engineering can be easy and fun, but only if you learn it incrementally.
To me the secret was to learn the core concepts, then learn new topics upon the on previous ones.
This way, you will then feel as well that it has a constant, long, but not hard learning process.
Without incremental approach , it can easily feel like impossible or even like magic, that only talented people can do.
When you feel that, I guarantee that all you need is to learn some basics that you accidentally left out from your studies.

I believe that talent, on the long run is insignificant in this profession.
But I believe, that being consequent and persistent will help you conquer your studies.
I believe that you can do it, because the very fact that you reading this now proves that you have made up your mind.
If you need help, you are welcome to reach out to me and I do my best to help you.

In the upcoming lesions, I will intentionally keep you away from too [high level languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-level_programming_language).
I want to build a knowledge base, that you will be able to use with almost any language and tooling in the future.
But for that we have to go trough on the basis, do some extra side research and exercise here and there.
For that reason, we going to avoid the use of any framework such as a [web application frameworks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework).

Each Section below here will be a reference to a separate file that focus on one topic

### Curriculum
* [Thinking](Thinking.md)
* [Software? Hardware?](SoftwareAndHardware.md)
* [Operation System Fundamentals](OperationSystemFundamentals.md)
  * [GNU/Linux](GNU-Linux.md)
