Shell.md, before:

# Shell

In computing, a shell is a user interface for access to an operating system's services.
In general, operating system shells use either a command-line interface (CLI) or graphical user interface (GUI),
depending on a computer's role and particular operation.
It is named a shell because it is the outermost layer around the operating system kernel.
CLI shells require the user to be familiar with commands and their calling syntax,
and to understand concepts about the shell-specific scripting language (for example bash script).
They are also more easily operated via [refreshable braille display](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refreshable_braille_display),
and provide certain advantages to screen readers.

Graphical shells place a low burden on beginning computer users,
and are characterized as being easy to use.

Since they also come with certain disadvantages,
most GUI-enabled operating systems also provide CLI shells.

## Windows

The most popular shells being used are
* [Windows Powershell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell)
* [Command Prompt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cmd.exe)

## Unix-like environments

Users typically interact with a Unix shell using a [terminal emulator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator);
however, direct operation via serial hardware connections or Secure Shell are common for server systems.

The currently most popular shells are:
* [Bash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_(Unix_shell))
  * usually can be found on most GNU/Linux environments
* [zsh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell)
  * A user community website called "Oh My Zsh" collects third-party plug-ins and themes for the Z shell. As of 2018, their GitHub repository has (of varying quality):
    * over 1,000 contributors
    * over 200 plug-ins
    * over 140 themes
    * It also comes with an auto-update tool that makes it easier to keep installed plug-ins and themes updated
* [fish / friendly interactive shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendly_interactive_shell)
* [ksh / KornShell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KornShell)

All Unix shells provide:
* [filename wildcarding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wildcard_character)
* [piping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix))
* [here documents](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Here_document)
* [command substitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command_substitution)
* [variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variable_(programming))
* [control structures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_flow) for [condition-testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conditional_(programming))
* [iteration capabilities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iteration)

### Example

TBD

### Useful Commands

TBD

Commit message:

add more description to the shell section

Shell.md, after:

# Shell

In computing, a shell is a user interface for access to an operating system's services.
In general, operating system shells use either a command-line interface (CLI) or graphical user interface (GUI),
depending on a computer's role and particular operation.
It is named a shell because it is the outermost layer around the operating system kernel.
CLI shells require the user to be familiar with commands and their calling syntax,
and to understand concepts about the shell-specific scripting language (for example bash script).
They are also more easily operated via [refreshable braille display](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refreshable_braille_display),
and provide certain advantages to screen readers.

## Interaction

### GUI

Graphical shells place a low burden on beginner computer users,
and are characterized as being easy to use.

Since they also come with certain disadvantages,
most GUI-enabled operating systems also provide CLI shells.

### CUI

A command-line interface or command language interpreter (CLI),
also known as command-line user interface, console user interface and character user interface (CUI),
is a means of interacting with a computer program where the user (or client) issues commands to the program
in the form of successive lines of text (command lines).

A program which handles the interface is called a command language interpreter.
The CLI was the primary means of interaction with most computer systems on computer terminals in the mid-1960s,
and continued to be used throughout the 1970s and 1980s on OpenVMS,
Unix systems and personal computer systems including MS-DOS, CP/M and Apple DOS.

The interface is usually implemented with a command line shell,
which is a program that accepts commands as text input and converts commands into appropriate operating system functions.

Today, many end users rarely, if ever, use command-line interfaces and instead rely upon graphical user interfaces and menu-driven interactions.
However, many software developers, system administrators and advanced users still rely heavily on command-line interfaces to perform tasks more efficiently,
configure their machine, or access programs and program features that are not available through a graphical interface.

Programs with command-line interfaces are generally easier to automate via scripting.

#### Windows

The most popular shells being used are
* [Windows Powershell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell)
* [Command Prompt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cmd.exe)

#### Unix-like environments

Users typically interact with a Unix shell using a [terminal emulator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator);
however, direct operation via serial hardware connections or Secure Shell are common for server systems.

The currently most popular shells are:
* [Bash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_(Unix_shell))
  * usually can be found on most GNU/Linux environments
* [zsh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell)
  * A user community website called "Oh My Zsh" collects third-party plug-ins and themes for the Z shell. As of 2018, their GitHub repository has (of varying quality):
    * over 1,000 contributors
    * over 200 plug-ins
    * over 140 themes
    * It also comes with an auto-update tool that makes it easier to keep installed plug-ins and themes updated
* [fish / friendly interactive shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendly_interactive_shell)
* [ksh / KornShell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KornShell)

All Unix shells provide:
* [filename wildcarding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wildcard_character)
* [piping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix))
* [here documents](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Here_document)
* [command substitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command_substitution)
* [variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variable_(programming))
* [control structures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_flow) for [condition-testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conditional_(programming))
* [iteration capabilities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iteration)

### Example

TBD
