Variables.md, before:

# [Variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variable_(computer_science))

## What are they, and why do we need it ?

Variables allow us to work with values that we don't know during the writing the code,
but will be available when our program is running somewhere.

## Examples from real world with real world

In far fetched example, you can have a box that holds something,
You can ask someone to carry that box for you.
Therefore when a moving company come to pick up your belongings,
all they need to know is that you have a couple of box that needs to be
delivered to a new address, without the need to know the content.

In a different usage scenario with variables,
you can have a friend in your contact address book,
you can call that person with your phone, without the need to know the 
phone number of your friend. Therefore when that contact change they phone number,
you still call them in the same way, and don't have to memorize a new phone number.
This is especially good when you have a company phone address book,
and you search a someone by they role. Like HR department.
You don't have to know everyone to know who you need to contact,
in case you have a problem, instead you can use a symbolic group mailing address.

Commit message:

update description of the variable, and link it to main README

Variables.md, after:

# [Variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variable_(computer_science))

## What are they, and why do we need it ?

Variables allow us to work with values that we don't know during the writing the code,
but will be available when our program is running somewhere.

## Examples from real world with real world

### The Deliverer

In far fetched example, you can have a box that holds something,
You can ask someone to carry that box for you.
Therefore when a deliverer come to pick up your belongings,
all s/he need to know is that you have a couple of box that needs to be
delivered to an address, without the need to know the content.
To go further with this example, we can vaguley describe the deliverer job description
using the "package" and "location" keyword as variables in a sentence, without the need to know the actual
concrete examples for each upcoming delivery:
> In generally the deliverer deliver packages to a location


### Contact List

In a different usage scenario with variables,
you can have a friend in your contact address book,
you can call that person with your phone, without the need to know the
phone number of your friend. Therefore when that contact change they phone number,
you still call them in the same way, and don't have to memorize a new phone number.
This is especially good when you have a company phone address book,
and you search a someone by they role. Like HR department.
You don't have to know everyone to know who you need to contact,
in case you have a problem, instead you can use a symbolic group mailing address.
